---
title: docs/Holocaust Women
tags: humanexperiments
---

# Holocaust Women

- hair shaving, forced undressing and genital inspection during the Shoah produced feelings and meanings in women that differed from those of men due to socialized gendered roles and expectations. Those acts threatened men’s security rather than being associated with sexuality or sexual humiliation.
- During those 'routine procedures' in camps and ghettos, women suffered not only from men’s unpleasant scrutiny, but also from the fact that men were touching their breasts and genitalia. Some bodily searches for valuables were overt acts of sexual violence. There were also cases of sexualized violence perpetrated with the aim of punishing women for certain wrongdoings and intimidating others.
- Edmond Baumvald, Holocaust survivor of the Janowska camp in Lviv, recalled that a member of camp leadership forced Jewish newcomers to strip in order to take their possessions. One of the young women refused to do so. For disobedience, he forced her to lift her skirt from behind and then shot her in the genitals. He called up a Jewish man and ordered him to cart her around the square until she died.
- In some camps and ghettos, women went through forced abortions, sterilizations and medical experiments. Beila Habis, Holocaust survivor from the Bershad camp in Vinnytsia oblast, remembered that women in the camp 'had formaldehyde solution injected in utero,' which caused strong pain and bleeding.
- In many cases, rape went hand in hand with looting of Jewish properties. In such cases, rape was a method of terror and torture to intimidate women and find out the location of valuables, or the tool of punishment if the offenders failed to get what they came for. Such rapes often took place in Jewish homes or next to them with the woman’s family present. There were also rapes taking place independently of looting.
- Germans or their collaborators raped women in barracks or in their homes or workplaces. To hide the crime, they would often kill the women afterwards. According to the recollections of Holocaust survivors, Volksdeutsche Florian Koch, who served as a guard in the Bohdanivka camp in Odesa oblast, took teenage girls of ages 17–18 from pigsties where they were staying with other Jews, took them to a barn, robbed, raped and shot them.
- Gang rape was not a rare phenomenon during the Holocaust. Groups of perpetrators would barge into barracks and rape young women right in front of everyone present. Those who resisted could be beaten or killed. Some girls and young women were chosen specifically for sexual abuse. They were selected among permanent residents of ghettos and camps
- - 'A Romanian gendarme who was the Commandant of Tulchyn selected healthy young girls from the ghetto and took them away, under the official pretence of working in the kitchen and bakery of those divisions located . The girls returned having been raped and with venereal diseases. Many committed suicide back in the barracks, while some of them were killed when resisting or attempting to flee.
- Leadership of the ghetto and camps, as well as guards, often took advantage of their position of power and coerced women and girls into sex in exchange for food, medicines, and protection from deportation, or under the threat of killing the women themselves or their loved ones.
- That way, hungry women agreed to have sex with Chaikovskyi only to be allowed to go to the market and get some food.
- Some men from camp leadership would hire young girls as house servants, forcing them to provide sexual services. At the same time, some women perceived their body as an important resource to save themselves and their loved ones. Such women could initiate sex with powerful men on their own, which Myrna Goldberg called 'sex for survival.'
- Parents did everything possible to save their daughters from rape. They would hide them, dress them in rags, hide or cut their hair, smear soot on their faces to make them unattractive, spread rumours about girls suffering from typhoid fever and other diseases.
- The presence of loved ones during rape was an additional humiliating factor for the survivors of rape.
- Sexual violence was both a consequence of the dehumanization of Jews and a means of their dehumanization, designed to facilitate the process of killing and to absolve the Nazi murderers and their collaborators from guilt and regret.
- The drunken men then set loose a dog to rip off the raped woman's breasts. Blood was everywhere. The woman passed out.
- The young witness was next. Five soldiers held her down and took turns raping and sodomizing her. They spilled alcohol on her. They laughed. They said they'd kill her. She didn't yet have breasts for the dog to attack.
- He points out that the major camps had brothels staffed by prostitutes brought in from the outside to serve officers and guards. He also says that in death camps, women prisoners dropped to as little as 60 pounds and suffered from infectious diseases like typhoid and tuberculosis -- and that the SS would have been careful to stay away from them.
- - "We usually have people dying to talk, and no one will listen," she says. "Now we have people dying to listen, but no one will talk."