---
title: docs/Penglai
tags: chinese folklore
---

# Penglai
- Literal_translation 'Penglai Immortal Mount_Penglai -1 Island'is a legendary land of Chinese_mythology). It is known in Japanese_mythology as Hōrai.
- According to the Classic_of_Mountains_and_Seas the mountain is located at the eastern end of Bohai_Sea).Mount_Penglai -:0-3According to the pre-Qin mythology which retells the legend of Xu_Fupresenting a memorial to the Qin_Shi_Huangin order to seek for the Elixir_of_life there are three godly mountains which are found in the Bohai sea where immortals reside; these mountains are Penglai, Fāngzhàng and Yíngzhōu
- ).Mount_Penglai -4O ther islands where immortals reside are called Dàiyú and Yuánjiāo (
- Mount Penglai is located on an inhabited island which is found within the boundaries of Dinghai_Districtand can be reached "after crossing thirty thousand leagues of the Weak Water".Mount_Penglai -6)
- In a legend originating in the Qi_(state)during the pre-Qin period, immortals live in a palace called the Penglai Palace which is located on Mount Penglai.Mount_Penglai -:0-3In Chinese_mythologythe mountain is often said to be the base for the Eight_Immortals(or at least where they travel to have a ceremonial meal as well as the illusionist Anqi_Sheng). Supposedly, everything on the mountain appears pure white, while its palaces are made from Goldand Silver and jewels grow on trees. There is no agony and no winter; there are rice bowls and wine glasses that never become empty no matter how much people eat or drink from them; and there are enchanted fruits growing in Penglai that can heal any ailment, grant Eternal_youth and even resurrect the dead.
- Historically, Qin_Shi_Huang in search of the Elixir_of_life made several efforts to find the landmass where the mountain is located, to no benefit. Legends tell that Xu_Fu one servant sent to find the island, found Japan instead, and named Mount_Fujias Penglai.
- The presentation of Mt. Hōrai in Lafcadio_Hearn)'s Kwaidan:_Stories_and_Studies_of_Strange_Thingsdiffers from the earlier Chinese legend. This version rejects much of the fantastic and magical properties of Hōrai. In this version of the myth, Hōrai is not free from sorrow or death, and the winters are bitterly cold. Hearn's conception of Hōrai holds that there are no magical fruits that cure disease, grant eternal youth or raise the dead, and no rice bowls or wine glasses that never become empty; rather, Hearn's incarnation of the myth of Hōrai focuses more on the atmosphere of the place, which is said to be made up not of air but of "quintillions of quintillions" of souls. Breathing in these souls is said to grant one all of the perceptions and knowledge of these ancient souls. The Japanese version also holds that the people of Hōrai are small fairies who they have no knowledge of great evil, and therefore their hearts never grow old.