---
title: docs/The Red River
tags: chinese folklore
---

# The Red River
- Literal_translation'red water'is an important feature in the mythological geography of Chinese literature, including novels and poetry over a course of over two millennia from the Warring_States_periodto early Han_dynastyera poetry of the Chucionward. The Red River is one of the mythological rivers said to flow from Kunlun_(mythologya mythological land, with mountainous features. Translations into English include "Scarlet River".
- Put together, these could form a picture of an exotic land usually thought to be located somewhere "in the west". Sometimes, as the areas to the west were charted, real geographical features would be named for mythological ones. It is also possible that the reverse process also occurred, as stories or legends formed from actual geographic phenomena were incorporated into mythical geography.
- As the mythology of the Red River and related mythical geography developed, it was influenced by ideas from the Cosmologyof India related to Sumeruas an Axis_mundi together with related cosmological features, such as rivers (Christie 1968:74). India was the goal of the Buddhist priest Xuanzangand his companions in the Journey to the West, in which India became part of a fictional geography, as well as all the land between it and Tang_dynasty)
- The Red River is an allusion in various Chinese Classical poems, the early Chuci anthology included. Pulled through the sky by a team of dragons, Qu Yuan soars above all obstacle rivers and hostile terrain at will during his spirit journey as described in his poem "Li_Sao)". The Li Sao helped set the tone for other poems of the Chuci, which also allude to this type of mythical geography. In the "Li Sao", Qu Yuan, on a spiritual journey, which he describes as being pulled in a chariot by winged Chinese_dragon leaves the Ford_of_Heaven&action=edit&redlink=1in the morning and reaches Kunlun_(mythology)by nightfall.
- The Red River was often thought to flow from Kunlun_(mythologysometimes located in the south seas area and sometimes considered to be the focal point of a Western Paradise. It is sometimes said that this Paradise was presided over by Xiwangmu, the Queen Mother of Meng Hao in the West, in later accounts was relocated to a palace protected by golden ramparts, within which immortals (Xian_(Taoism))would feast (Christie 1968: 78-79 and inhabited by various other exotic beings, such as Wu_(shaman)or shamans, who were conceived of as people that practiced divination, prayer, sacrifice, rainmaking, and healing: they specialized in traveling by spirit flight, induced through the usual shamanic means.